---
title: "Hobbies"
date: 2025-01-12T21:43:11-08:00
tags:
- hobbies
- various
- lists
categories:
- Personal
- Lists
---

I have too many hobbies.

<!--more-->

In no particular order:

* I like programming on the side, for fun.
* I like going to tech conferences.
  * Sometimes I give talks at them.
* I like going to video game, board game and comic conventions.
* I'm always being tempted to go back to Burning Man.
* I'm a frequenter of the JoCoCruise.
* I have previously been a part of an a capella group at work.
* I like Karaoke.
* I drink beers.
* I drink all manner of cocktails, but particularly Gin based ones.
* I play video games, though it's been mostly Destiny 2 lately.
* I enjoy watching movies, and tv shows, mostly fictional, in particular animation.
  * That definitely includes anime.
* I'm currently casually learning Japanese via Busuu and The Owl App.
* I enjoy Traveling.
* I am a photographer.
  * But I don't quite have the habit of editing photos in any specific time frame.
* I'm attempting to improve my writing, through forced blogging.
  * Is it working?
* I like theater, and musicals, though it's been a while since I've been.
* I like reading, and essentially always have my Kindle with me.
* I like a wide variety of foods.
  * But I don't love cooking.
* I can convince myself that running and rock climbing regularly at good for me.
* I use social media, and do follow a bit of tech and political news.

I am spoiled for choice for how to spend my time, but it does mean I'm not
an expert at any one of these things.

So I'm not planning on quiting my day job yet.